So now that we have an understanding of some of the
context surrounding Greengrass,
let's go ahead and review some of the main features and components of it.
So first, when we're looking at Greengrass,
we're going to have to put it in the context of other IoT devices.
Now we might have many different IoT devices and a bunch of different settings,
but when we're using Greengrass, we'll also have a Greengrass Core.
Now that will actually be another device which will
run Greengrass Core software.
Now inside of that device,
one thing we can do with Greengrass is to use the lambda runtime to actually
process bits of information coming in from IoT devices.
So any events that they emit might get sent over to the Greengrass Core
and those events can then be processed and acted upon.
Potentially we could use the lambda runtime to send pieces of
information into the AWS cloud and interact with other IoT Core
services like the Message Broker.
Now with the lambda runtime,
you'll write code that responds to events that IoT devices emit.
Now with that,
you'll need to be able to update the code that you're writing in there.
So you'll be able to do this with the Greengrass service in
the AWS cloud and whenever you have a new function with new
bits of code that you write,
you'll be able to use over the air updates to send that lambda function into
your Greengrass Core and then replace the existing function so that it can
take different actions depending on your needs,
or you can patch it appropriately to make it more
efficient or other things along those lines.
So what are some characteristics of Greengrass lambda functions and how do they
compare to the cloud-based lambda functions that AWS offers?
These are two distinct categories that we should be sure to keep apart.
So cloud-based lambda functions are cloud-based serverless computing,
also the code that you write in the AWS cloud will run
in response to configurable events.
You'll also be able to update the code in your
lambda functions with the AWS CLIs, SDKs,
and the console.
Inside of cloud-based lambda functions, you can write functions in Node.js,
Java, C#, Go, Python, and many other languages now supported by lambda layers.
And finally, you'll have access to do aliasing,
integrations, and versioning, all with these cloud-based lambda functions.
When we're working with Greengrass lambda functions,
on the other hand, those will be for edge device-based local computing,
as opposed to cloud-based computing.
You'll also be able to take action on local device
events without a cloud connection.
So you won't be necessarily interacting with a cloud
initially to trigger these events,
and they're also running on that Greengrass Core itself.
Instead of updating the code inside of the console in the cloud,
you'll be able to configure and schedule lambda
updates over the air with Greengrass.
Finally, you'll also be able to write functions in a smaller set of languages,
including Python, Node.js, Java, and C.
Now, of course,
all of these different languages might change in the
future as AWS adds more functionality, however,
this is the current setup as of early 2019.
Now with Greengrass lambda functions, if you decide to push an update,
there will be a fail safe that will allow you to revert to previous versions
if for some reason that update isn't working as expected.
And finally,
you can track update progress inside of the AWS console with Greengrass,
so essentially keeping track of whether or not those functions inside
of your Greengrass Cores are updated successfully.
So in addition to Greengrass lambda functions,
what are some of the benefits we get out of using Greengrass?
Well one of the other areas that we benefit from is in relation to security.
There's a few features that Greengrass provides that up our security levels.
The first is TLS mutual authentication.
Now this is going to allow us to securely encrypt traffic between
our Greengrass Core devices and the AWS cloud.
We're also going to get access to local lambda authentication.
Now these local lambda functions will be able to use sigv4,
which is a method for authenticating actions to AWS services.
Now that'll essentially allow those local lambda functions to
take actions on AWS cloud services as well.
In addition to this, we'll be able to leverage the Greengrass Secrets Manager,
which will move secrets from the cloud to the edge on your
Greengrass Core devices and enforce the same policies that
the cloud was enforcing.
So essentially we could make sure that particular devices have
access to only the secrets they're supposed to and we can do the
exact same thing with any policies and keys we provide to the
Greengrass Secrets Manager.
Now outside of the Greengrass Secrets Manager,
we also have the ability to use hardware security integration.
Now this is for devices that have a secure element,
which is related to the Public Key cryptography Standards,
or PKCS,
that improves security because of where the data is stored physically
on the device in a particular security module there.
So this means that we can have even an advanced level of security with our
Greengrass Core devices and their physical capabilities as well.
But in addition to security,
we also get a lot of added functionality when it comes to Greengrass Core.
Now this comes from Greengrass connectors.
When we have a Greengrass Core and some Greengrass Core software running on it,
we might have a bunch of IoT devices that are still generating that data
and it could just be piling up on our Greengrass Core.
Now we might want to do something with this data,
perhaps send it in to the AWS cloud, and fortunately for us,
AWS provides these connectors which will make creating applications that
integrate with things like Amazon Kinesis much easier.
Now these are provided for a variety of different applications,
including Kinesis, CloudWatch Logs, and also Device Defender,
and many others like Splunk and third party vendors
that aren't even related to AWS.
So effectively this speeds up the process of developing
applications on Greengrass Core devices.
Now in addition to speeding up the development of application with connectors,
we also have the ability to take advantage of AWS's machine learning
capabilities when we're working with Greengrass.
We start off with our Greengrass Core one more time,
and those IoT devices that are generating bits of data.
Now in this particular use case,
we might want to be able to analyze this data in real time and
determine if there are any anomalies within it.
But in order to do that, we'd probably want to create a machine learning model.
Now we could do this by working with Amazon Sagemaker,
another service unrelated to Greengrass,
and we could use that to generate an algorithm using a
lot of compute power in the cloud,
something that would be completely impossible to do on
IoT devices or the AWS Greengrass Core.
And once we've computed a machine learning model out,
that itself could be deployed over to the Greengrass Core,
along with any software that's required to run the
different models that we might create.
Now from that,
we could actually output live data and detect any
anomalies that are happening within our data,
and then eventually if we wanted to,
we could send that back into the cloud and act on that information or
simply act on it locally in the Greengrass Core as well.
So hopefully by now you'll see how Greengrass can really be effective
at helping you take actions on local IoT devices,
and how you can leverage its existing abilities to connect to the AWS cloud,
and also how you can leverage the AWS cloud to provide things
like machine learning models to Greengrass Core to make its decision making more effective.